This was the most difficult week of work for me, by far. In terms of readings and some of the instructions (the 'outsourced' instructions/tutorials, at least) a lot of the language used was difficult to navigate. Still being new to all of this, reading long passages of text that involve concepts and terms I'm still trying to learn made progress slow, and frustrating. I also struggled with AntConc. I don't think the visualization offered by AntConc really works for me. I understood what was happening, and what I was looking at, but trying to identify patterns in the text was something I had a hard time doing. I had a much easier time with the topic modelling task. Once I worked through all of the steps, I got a clearer understanding of what we were supposed to have gained from this week.

I enjoyed some of the questions the readings raised in me this week. I could better understand the argument about 'distant reading' when compared to work we've done previously on the diary. It wasn't the exact same topic, but when reading through this week's texts I found myself thinking back to that diary. I don't think I fully understood what was meant by 'close' and 'distant' reading until I thought of it in that manner. There is information that is not readily noticable when you take a step back and view things from a macro level. Not only that, but I think it was a good showcase of how you can frame data in a number of different ways, and the relative ease at which you can do this when working digitally. The Hitchcock reading was particularly poignant in that regard.

Something that the Hitchcock reading also raised in my mind was the issue of morality. We've briefly covered ethics and morality in the past, but whenever work focuses specifically on archival material of dead people, I'm reminded of the role historians play in this. I'm not entirely sure where I stand on this matter, but it did make me wonder if 'zooming in' and 'zooming out' can help this process. The famous 'a single death/a million deaths' quote comes to mind. When viewing our materials from the macro level, it's easy to lose sight of the fact that you're dealing with people, particularly in the case of diaries, letters, or prison records. However, the ability to navigate material and 'zoom in' to a micro level can shine a light on the personal aspects of the material. Again, I'm still new to this and my stances as an historian are developing, but maybe this sort of topic modelling is a happy medium?

A last brief note I have is on the matter of confabulation and the a priori knowledge talked about in the syllabus. As I sit here writing the journal, my mind jumped to the notes I wrote right at the end of my notes.md file. I think it's interesting how my questions developed from the earlier Voyant work (where I said I'm not sure I'm asking the right questions) to the later work where I think the questions I asked are quite telling. Those three final notes of mine are based on rough ideas, a priori knowledge, and a general understanding of those time periods. I looked at the patterns and ascribed to them 'hypotheses' based on assumptions I already had. "The declining mention of God must be due to the Englightenment." I can see why it's important to analyze where we stand as historians, and to make sure we don't just rest on these assumptions but follow the patterns and the data to an evidenced conclusion.
